
=== PAGE 1 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0c. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 1 of 13
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA
Criminal No. 22-223(6) (NEB/DTS)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Plaintiff, PLEA AGREEMENT AND
SENTENCING STIPULATIONS
V.
ABDI NUR SALAH,
Defendant.
The United States of America and the defendant Abdi Nur Salah agree to
resolve this case on the terms and conditions that follow. This plea agreement binds
only the defendant and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of
Minnesota. This agreement does not bind any other United States Attorney's Office
or any other federal or state agency.
1.
Indictment, which charges the defendant with wire fraud, in violation of Title 18,
United States Code, Section 1343. The defendant fully understands the nature and
elements of the crimes with which he has been charged. At the time of sentencing,
the United States agrees to move to dismiss the remaining charges against him in
the Indictment.
2. Factual Basis. The defendant is pleading guilty because he is in fact
guilty of Count 6 of the Indictment. In pleading guilty, the defendant admits the
following facts and that those facts establish his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and
constitute relevant conduct pursuant to the United States Sentencing Guidelines:
=== PAGE 2 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0C. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 2 of 13
From in or about April 2020 through in or about January 2022, the defendant
knowingly participated in a scheme to defraud the federal child nutrition program, a
program designed to provide free meals to children in need. The defendant and his
co-conspirators obtained, misappropriated, and laundered millions of dollars in
program funds that were intended as reimbursements for the cost of serving meals to
children. The defendants exploited changes in the program intended to ensure
underserved children received adequate nutrition during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Rather than feed children, the defendants took advantage ofthe Covid-19 pandemic-
and the resulting program changesto enrich themselves by fraudulently
misappropriating millions of dollars in federal child nutrition program funds.
In October 2020, shortly after the Minnesota Department of Education
announced that it was no longer approving food sites run by restaurants and other
for-profit companies, the defendant acquired a non-profit entity, Stigma-Free
International, for use in carrying out the scheme. The defendant transferred
ownership of Stigma-Free International to his co-conspirators, who used it to open a
number of new Federal Child Nutrition Program sites around the state of Minnesota,
including in Willmar, Mankato, St. Cloud, Waite Park, and St. Paul. Those
defendants claimed to be serving meals to tens of thousands of children each day
throughout the state of Minnesota, for which they fraudulently claimed and received
millions of dollars in Federal Child Nutrition Program funds.
Over the 12-month period from November 2020 to November 2021, Salah's co-
defendants fraudulently claimed to have served nearly 5 million meals to children at
=== PAGE 3 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0C. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 3 of 13
the Stigma-Free International sites. In support of these claims, they prepared and
submitted fraudulent meal count sheets and invoices. The conspirators also
submitted fake attendance rosters purporting to list the names of children who
received food at the Stigma-Free International sites. The rosters were fraudulent and
the names on them fake.
Based on these fraudulent claims, Feeding Our Future paid out over $i0
million in Federal Child Nutrition Program reimbursements for meals purportedly
served to children at the Stigma-Free International sites.
The defendant created two shell companies to receive and launder his share of
the fraud proceeds. In January 2021, the defendant created Stone Bridge
Development LLC, which he used as a shell company to receive and launder his share
of the fraud proceeds. The defendant used Stone Bridge Development LLC to receive
more than $l million in Federal Child Nutrition Program funds, which he used to
purchase real estate and to fund his own personal spending.
The defendant sent much of the money to other entities he created in order to
purchase real estate, including $200,000 to ANS Projects LLC, an entity that the
defendant created in August 2021. The defendant used ANS Projects LLC to purchase
a multi-family home in Minneapolis along with another individual involved in the
scheme to fraudulently obtain Federal Child Nutrition Program funds.
The defendant and other co-conspirators created another shell company called
Five A's Projects LLC. The defendant and other co-conspirators together transferred
more than $l million in Federal Child Nutrition Program funds to Five A's Projects
=== PAGE 4 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0c. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 4 of 13
LLC, which they used to purchase the former location of Kelly's 19th Hole, a bar and
restaurant in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota.
In all, based on their fraudulent claims, the defendant received approximately
$1,659,816 in Federal Child Nutrition Program funds.
On or about December 30, 2020, in furtherance of this scheme, one of the
defendant's co-conspirators sent an email to Feeding Our Future containing
fraudulent meal counts for the Stigma-Free Willmar site. The email traveled through
servers located outside the state of Minnesota.
3. Waiver of Pretrial Motions. The defendant understands and agrees
that he has certain rights to file pre-trial motions in this case. As part of the plea
agreement, and based upon concessions of the United States within this plea
agreement, the defendant knowingly, willingly, and voluntarily gives up the right to
file any pre-trial motions in this case. The defendant agrees that, by pleading guilty
he is withdrawing any motions previously filed.
4. Waiver of Constitutional Trial Rights. The defendant understands
that he has the right to go to trial. At trial, the defendant would be presumed
innocent, have the right to trial by jury or, with the consent of the United States and
of the Court, to trial by the Court, the right to the assistance of counsel, the right to
confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, the right to subpoena witnesses to
testify for the defense, the right to testify and present evidence, and the right to be
protected from compelled self-incrimination. The defendant understands that he has
the right to an attorney at every stage of these proceedings and, if necessary, one will
=== PAGE 5 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0c. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 5 of 13
be appointed to represent him. The defendant understands that he has the right to
persist in a plea of not guilty and, if he does so, he would have the right to a public
and speedy trial. By pleading guilty, the defendant knowingly, willingly, and
defendant understands that a guilty plea is a complete and final admission of guilt
and, if the Court accepts the guilty plea, the Court will adjudge the defendant guilty
without a trial.
5. Additional Consequences. The defendant understands that as a
result of his conviction, he could experience additional consequences, such as the loss
of the right to carry firearms, the right to vote, and the right to hold public office.
6. Statutory Penalties. The parties agree that wire fraud, as charged in
Count 6 of the Indictment, carries statutory penalties of:
a. a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years in prison;
b. a supervised release term of up to three years;
c. a fine of up to $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the
offense, whichever is greater;
d. assessment to the defendant of the costs of prosecution as
authorized by 28 U.S.C. ss 1918(b) and 1920; and
a mandatory special assessment of $100 under 18 U.S.C.
e.
s 3013(a)(2)(A).
7. Revocation of Supervised Release. The defendant understands that
if he were to violate any supervised release condition while on supervised release, the
Court could revoke his supervised release, and the defendant could be sentenced to
an additional term of imprisonment up to the statutory maximum set forth in 18
=== PAGE 6 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0C. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 6 of 13
U.S.C. $ 3583(e)(3). See U.S.S.G. $s 7B1.4, 7B1.5. The defendant also understands
that as part of any revocation, the Court may include a requirement that he be placed
on an additional term of supervised release after imprisonment, as set forth in 18
U.S.C. $ 3583(h).
8. Guidelines Calculations. The parties acknowledge that the defendant
will be sentenced in accordance with 18 U.S.C. $ 3551, et seq. Nothing in this plea
agreement should be construed to limit the parties from presenting any and all
relevant evidence to the Court at sentencing. The parties also acknowledge that the
Court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines in determining the
appropriate sentence and stipulate to the following guideline calculations:
a. Base Offense Level. The parties agree that the base offense level
for wire fraud is 7. U.S.S.G. $ 2B1.1(a)(1).
b. Specific Offense Characteristics. The parties agree that the
offense level is increased by 16 levels because the loss is more
than $1.5 million, but not more than $3.5 million. U.S.S.G.
s 2B1.1(b)(1)(I). The parties agree that the offense level should be
increased by 2 levels because the offense involved conduct
described in 18 U.S.C. S 1040 (Fraud in Connection with a Major
Disaster or Emergency Benefits). The parties agree that no other
specific offense adjustments apply.
Chapter 3 Adjustments. The parties agree that the offense level
C.
participant in the criminal activity. U.S.S.G. s 3B1.2(a). The
parties agree that no other Chapter 3 Adjustments apply.
d. Acceptance of Responsibility. The government agrees to
recommend that the defendant receive a 2-level reduction for
acceptance of responsibility pursuant to U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1(a). As
the defendant has timely notified the government of his intention
to enter a plea of guilty, the government agrees to recommend
that the defendant receive an additional 1-level reduction
pursuant to U.S.S.G. s 3E1.1(b). Whether these reductions will be
imposed shall be determined by the Court in its discretion.
=== PAGE 7 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS Doc. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 7 of 13
However, the defendant understands and agrees that the
government's recommendations are conditioned upon the
following: (1) the defendant testifies truthfully during the change
of plea and sentencing hearings; (2) the defendant provides full,
complete and truthful information to the United States Probation
Office in the pre-sentence investigation; and (3) the defendant
engages in no conduct inconsistent with acceptance of
responsibility before the time of sentencing, including frivolously
denying facts in the Presentence Report. Nothing in this
agreement limits the right of the government, pursuant to
U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1 and/or $ 3C1.1 to seek denial of a reduction for
acceptance of responsibility or an enhancement for obstruction of
justice should the defendant engage in any conduct inconsistent
with acceptance of responsibility, including moving to withdraw
his guilty plea after it is entered.
Criminal History Category. The parties believe that, at the time
e.
of sentencing, the defendant will fall into Criminal History
Category I. U.S.S.G. $ 4A1.1. This does not constitute a
stipulation, but a belief based on an assessment of the
information currently known. The defendant's actual criminal
history and related status will be determined by the Court based
on the information presented in the Presentence Report and by
the parties at the time of sentencing. The defendant understands
that if the presentence investigation reveals any prior adult or
juvenile sentence which should be included within his criminal
history under the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, the defendant will
be sentenced based on his true criminal history category, and he
will not be permitted to withdraw from this Plea Agreement.
U.S.S.G. $ 4A1.1.
f. Zero-Point Offender Adjustment. Because the defendant has zero
criminal-history points and no disqualifying conduct, the parties
agree the defendant qualifies for a 2-level adjustment under
U.S.S.G. $ 4C1.1.
Guidelines Range. If the adjusted offense level is 16, and the
g.
criminal history category is I, the Sentencing Guidelines range is
21 to 27 months of imprisonment.
h. Fine Range. If the adjusted offense level is 16, the Sentencing
Guidelines fine rangeis$10,000 to $95,000.U.S.S.G.
S 5E1.2(c)(3).
=== PAGE 8 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS Doc. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 8 of 13
Supervised Release. The Sentencing Guidelines call for a term of
supervised release of between one and three years. U.S.S.G.
s 5D1.2(a)(2).
9. Discretion of the Court. The foregoing stipulations are binding on
the parties, but do not bind the Court. The parties understand that the Sentencing
Guidelines are advisory and their application is a matter that falls solely within the
Court's discretion. The Court may make its own determination regarding the
applicable guideline factors and the applicable criminal history category. The Court
may also depart from the applicable Guidelines. If the Court determines that the
applicable guideline calculations or the defendant's criminal history category are
different from that stated above, such a determination shall not provide a basis for
the parties to withdraw from this agreement, and the defendant will be sentenced
pursuant to the Court's determinations.
10. Agreements as to Sentencing Recommendation. The parties are
free to recommend whatever sentence they deem appropriate. The parties reserve the
right to make a motion for departures from the applicable Guidelines range pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. s 3553(a), to oppose any such motion made by the opposing party, and to
argue for a sentence outside the applicable Guidelines range. If the Court does not
accept the sentencing recommendation of the parties, the defendant will have no right
to withdraw his guilty plea.
11. Special Assessment. The Sentencing Guidelines require payment of a
special assessment in the amount of $100 for each felony count of which the defendant
is convicted. U.S.S.G. $ 5E1.3. The defendant agrees that the special assessment is
due and payable at the time of sentencing.
=== PAGE 9 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0c. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 9 of 13
12. Restitution Agreement. The defendant understands and agrees that
the Mandatory Victim Restitution Act, 18 U.S.C. $ 3663A, applies and that the Court
is required to order the defendant to make restitution to the victims of his crime. The
defendant understands and agrees the Court may order the defendant to make
restitution to any victim of the scheme regardless of whether the victim was named
in the Superseding Indictment. The defendant agrees that he owes restitution in the
am0unt of $1,063,255.
13. . Disclosure of Assets. The defendant will fully and completely disclose
to the United States Attorney's Office the existence and location of any assets in
which the Defendant has any right, title, or interest, or over which the defendant
exercises control, directly or indirectly, including those assets held by a spouse,
nominee or other third party, or any business owned or controlled by the defendant.
The defendant agrees to assist the United States in identifying, locating, returning,
and transferring assets for use in payment of fines and/or forfeiture ordered by the
Court. The Defendant agrees to complete a financial statement within two weeks of
the entry of his guilty plea. The defendant further agrees to execute any releases that
defendant's assets and expressly authorizes the United States to obtain a credit
report on the defendant to evaluate his ability to satisfy financial obligations imposed
by the Court. If requested by the United States, the defendant agrees to submit to
one or more asset interviews or depositions under oath.
=== PAGE 10 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0C. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 10 of 13
14. Forfeiture. The defendant agrees to forfeit to the United States,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. $ 981(a)(1)(C) and 28 U.S.C. $ 2461(c), all property, real or
personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to wire fraud, as
charged in Count 6 of the Indictment, including but not limited to:
a. $343,418.98 seized from Star Choice Credit Union account No. 31109-10
held in the name of Stone Bridge Development, LLC;
b. the real property located at 8432 Noble Avenue, North Brooklyn Park,
Minnesota, known previously as Kelly's 19th Hole; and
C. the real property located at 2529 12th Avenue South, Minneapolis,
Minnesota.
The defendant admits that this property is subject to forfeiture because it
constitutes or is traceable to the wire fraud scheme alleged in Count 6 of the
Indictment.
The Defendant consents to the entry of a money judgment forfeiture in the
amount of $1,063,255, which represents the amount of proceeds he obtained from the
wire fraud scheme alleged in Count 6 of the Indictment. The defendant will receive a
credit against the money judgment forfeiture for the net value of all property that is
forfeited from him in this matter. The United States reserves the right to seek
forfeiture of substitute assets and any additional directly forfeitable property.
15. Waivers of Appeal and Collateral Attack. The defendant hereby
waives the right to appeal any non-jurisdictional issues. This appeal waiver includes,
but is not limited to: the defendant's waiver of the right to appeal guilt or innocence,
10
=== PAGE 11 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0C. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 11 of 13
any issues relating to the negotiation, taking or acceptance of the guilty plea, the
sentence imposed or any issues that relate to the calculation of the Guidelines range,
the supervised-release term and conditions imposed, any restitution obligations, and
the constitutionality of the statutes to which the defendant is pleading guilty. The
parties agree, however, that excluded from this waiver is an appeal by defendant of
the substantive reasonableness of a term of imprisonment above the high end of the
Guidelines range as determined by the Court, and an appeal by the government of
the substantive reasonableness of a term of imprisonment below the low end of the
Guidelines range as determined by the Court.
The defendant also waives the right to collaterally attack his conviction and
sentence under 28 U.S.C. $ 2255 except based upon a claim of ineffective assistance
of counsel. This collateral-review waiver does not operate to waive a collateral
challenge under 28 U.S.C. $ 2255 based on new legal principles enunciated in
Supreme Court case law decided after the date of this Plea Agreement that are both
substantive and have retroactive effect. For purposes of this provision, legal
principles that are substantive and retroactive are those that narrow the reach of the
offense of conviction and render the defendant's conduct non-criminal or that render
the sentence imposed illegal.
The defendant has discussed these rights with the defendant's attorney. The
defendant understands the rights being waived, and the defendant waives these
rights knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily.
11
=== PAGE 12 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0c. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 12 of 13
16. FOIA Reguests. The defendant waives all rights to obtain, directly or
through others, information about the investigation and prosecution of this case
under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. ss 552,
552A.
17. Complete Agreement. This, along with any agreement signed by the
parties before entry of plea, is the entire agreement and understanding between the
United States and the defendant. By signing this plea agreement, the defendant
acknowledges: (a) that the defendant has read the entire agreement and has reviewed
every part of it with the defendant's counsel; (b) that the defendant fully understands
this plea agreement; (c) that no promises, agreements, understandings, or conditions
have been made or entered into in connection with his decision to plead guilty, except
those set forth in this plea agreement; (d) that the defendant is satisfied with the
legal services and representation provided by defense counsel in connection with this
plea agreement and matters related to it; (e) that the defendant has entered into this
plea agreement freely, voluntarily, and knowingly; and (f) that the defendant's
12
=== PAGE 13 ===
CASE 0:22-Cr-00223-NEB-DTS D0c. 497 Filed 01/28/25 Page 13 of 13
decision to plead guilty in accord with the terms and conditions of this plea agreement
is made of the defendant's own free will.
Dated: eoel LISA D. KIRKPATRICK
Acting United States Attorney
BY: JOSEPH H. THOMPSON
HARRY M. JACOBS
MATTHEW S. EBERT
DANIEL W. BOBIER
Assistant United States Attorneys
Dated:
ABDI NR SALAH
Defendant
Dated:
BRIANTODER
Counsel for Defendant
13