
=== PAGE 1 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 1 of 11
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA
Criminal No. 23-82 (NEB/TNL)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Plaintiff, PLEA AGREEMENT AND
SENTENCING STIPULATIONS
V.
SHARONROSS
Defendant.
The United States of America and the defendant Sharon Ross, agree to resolve
this case on the terms and conditions that follow. This plea agreement binds only the
defendant and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Minnesota. This
agreement does not bind any other United States Attorney's Office or any other
federal or state agency.
1. Charges. The defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count 1 of the
Indictment, which charges the defendant with wire fraud, in violation of Title 18,
United States Code, Section 1343. The defendant fully understands the nature and
elements of the crimes with which she has been charged. At the time of sentencing,
the United States agrees to move to dismiss the remaining charges against her in the
Indictment.
2. Factual Basis. The defendant is pleading guilty because she is in fact
guilty of Count 1 of the Indictment. In pleading guilty, the defendant admits the
following facts and that those facts establish her guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and
constitute relevant conduct pursuant to the United States Sentencing Guidelines:
SCANNED
JAN 1 0 2024 ^
U.S.DISTRICTCOURTMPLS
=== PAGE 2 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 2 of 11
From in or about March 2021 through in or about 2022, defendant Sharon Ross
knowingly participated in a scheme to defraud the federal child nutrition program, a
program designed to provide free meals to children in need. The defendant obtained,
misappropriated, and laundered millions of dollars in program funds that were
intended as reimbursements for the cost of serving meals to children. The defendant
exploited changes in the program intended to ensure underserved children received
adequate nutrition during the Covid-19 pandemic. Rather than feed children, the
defendant took advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic-and the resulting program
changes-to enrich herself by fraudulently misappropriating millions of dollars in
federal child nutrition program funds.
More specifically, Ross was the executive director of House of Refuge Twin
Cities, a non-profit company located in St. Paul, Minnesota. Ross enrolled House of
Refuge in the Federal Child Nutrition Program under the sponsorship of first Feeding
Our Future and, later, Sponsor A. Ross claimed that House of Refuge operated a food
distribution sites at a dozen locations throughout the Twin Cities. Ross claimed that
the food was being served by a food vendor called Brava Café, which was a restaurant
in Minneapolis run by Hanna Marakegn.
Ross and Marakegn claimed that House of Refuge served nearly 900,000 meals
from September 2021 through February 2022including more than 300,000 meals
during the month of September 202l alone. These claims were fraudulent and
inflated. In support of these fraudulent claims, Ross submitted fraudulent meal
counts and invoices falsely claiming that House of Refuge was serving meals to
=== PAGE 3 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 3 of 11
thousands of children and entitled to tens of thousands of dollars a day in federal
child nutrition program funds. Ross also created and submitted fraudulent
attendance rosters purporting to list the names and ages of children receiving meals
at the House of Refuge sites. These rosters were fake and many of the names listed
on the rosters were not real.
Based on these fraudulent claims, Ross received approximately $2,434,360 in
federal child nutrition programs reimbursements for meals purportedly served to
children at the House of Refuge sites. Ross split this money with Marakegn. Ross
distributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to family members and used the rest of
the money to fund her lifestyle, including to pay for vacations to Florida and Las
Vegas, to purchase a suite at a Minnesota Timberwolves game, and to purchase a
house in Willernie, Minnesota.
On or about March 30, 2021, in furtherance of this scheme, Ross sent an email
to Sponsor A with the subject line “[Sponsor A] 2021 Application" that passed through
servers located outside the State of Minnesota.
3. Waiver of Pretrial Motions. The defendant understands and agrees
that she has certain rights to file pre-trial motions in this case. As part of the plea
agreement, and based upon concessions of the United States within this plea
file any pre-trial motions in this case. The defendant agrees that, by pleading guilty,
she is withdrawing any motions previously filed.
=== PAGE 4 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 4 of 11
4. Waiver of Constitutional Trial Rights. The defendant understands
that she has the right to go to trial. At trial, the defendant would be presumed
innocent, have the right to trial by jury or, with the consent of the United States and
of the Court, to trial by the Court, the right to the assistance of counsel, the right to
confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, the right to subpoena witnesses to
testify for the defense, the right to testify and present evidence, and the right to be
protected from compelled self-incrimination. The defendant understands that she has
the right to an attorney at every stage of these proceedings and, if necessary, one will
be appointed to represent her. The defendant understands that she has the right to
persist in a plea of not guilty and, if she does so, she would have the right to a public
and speedy trial. By pleading guilty, the defendant knowingly, willingly, and
voluntarily waives each of these trial rights, except the right to counsel. The
defendant understands that a guilty plea is a complete and final admission of guilt
and, if the Court accepts the guilty plea, the Court will adjudge the defendant guilty
without a trial.
5. Additional Conseguences. The defendant understands that as a
result of her conviction, she could experience additional consequences, such as the
loss of the right to carry firearms, the right to vote, and the right to hold public office.
6. Statutory Penalties. The parties agree that wire fraud, as charged in
Count 1 of the Indictment, carries statutory penalties of:
a maximum term of imprisonment of 20 years in prison;
a.
b. a supervised release term of up to three years;
=== PAGE 5 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 5 of 11
C. a fine of up to $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss from the
offense, whichever is greater;
d. assessment to the defendant of the costs of prosecution as
authorized by 28 U.S.C. $s 1918(b) and 1920; and
a mandatory special assessment of $100 under 18 U.S.C.
e.
s 3013(a)(2)(A).
7. Revocation of Supervised Release. The defendant understands that
if she were to violate any supervised release condition while on supervised release,
the Court could revoke her supervised release, and the defendant could be sentenced
to an additional term of imprisonment up to the statutory maximum set forth in 18
U.S.C. $ 3583(e)(3). See U.S.S.G. $s 7B1.4, 7B1.5. The defendant also understands
that as part of any revocation, the Court may include a requirement that she be
placed on an additional term of supervised release after imprisonment, as set forth
in 18 U.S.C. $ 3583(h).
8. Guidelines Calculations. The parties acknowledge that the defendant
will be sentenced in accordance with 18 U.S.C. $ 3551, et seq. Nothing in this plea
relevant evidence to the Court at sentencing. The parties also acknowledge that the
Court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines in determining the
appropriate sentence and stipulate to the following guideline calculations:
Base Offense Level. The parties agree that the base offense level
a.
for wire fraud is 7. U.S.S.G. $ 2B1.1(a)(1).
b. Specific Offense Characteristics. The parties agree that the
offense level is increased by 16 levels because the loss is more
than $1.5 million, but not more than $3.5 million. U.S.S.G.
s 2B1.1(b)(1)(I). The parties agree that no other specific offense
adjustments apply.
=== PAGE 6 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 6 of 11
C. Chapter 3 Adjustments. The parties agree that no Chapter 3
adjustments apply.
d. Acceptance of Responsibility. The government agrees to
recommend that the defendant receive a 2-level reduction for
acceptance of responsibility pursuant to U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1(a). As
the defendant has timely notified the government of his intention
to enter a plea of guilty, the government agrees to recommend
that the defendant receive an additional 1-level reduction
pursuant to U.S.S.G. s 3E1.1(b). Whether these reductions will be
imposed shall be determined by the Court in its discretion.
However, the defendant understands and agrees that the
government's recommendations are conditioned upon the
following: (1) the defendant testifies truthfully during the change
of plea and sentencing hearings; (2) the defendant provides full,
complete and truthful information to the United States Probation
Office in the pre-sentence investigation; and (3) the defendant
denying facts in the Presentence Report. Nothing in this
agreement limits the right of the government, pursuant to
U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1 and/or $ 3C1.1 to seek denial of a reduction for
acceptance of responsibility or an enhancement for obstruction of
justice should the defendant engage in any conduct inconsistent
with acceptance of responsibility, including moving to withdraw
his guilty plea after it is entered.
e. Criminal History Category. The parties believe that, at the time
of sentencing, the defendant will fall into Criminal History
Category II. U.S.S.G. $ 4A1.1. This does not constitute a
stipulation, but a belief based on an assessment of the
information currently known. The defendant's actual criminal
history and related status will be determined by the Court based
on the information presented in the Presentence Report and by
the parties at the time of sentencing. The defendant understands
that if the presentence investigation reveals any prior adult or
juvenile sentence which should be included within his criminal
history under the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, the defendant will
be sentenced based on his true criminal history category, and she
will not be permitted to withdraw from this Plea Agreement.
U.S.S.G. $ 4A1.1.
f. Guidelines Range. If the adjusted offense level is 2O, and the
criminal history category is II, the Sentencing Guidelines range
is 37 to 46 months of imprisonment.
=== PAGE 7 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 7 of 11
g. Fine Range. If the adjusted offense level is 20, the Sentencing
Guidelinesfine range is$15,000to150,000.U.S.S.G.
S 5E1.2(c)(3).
h.
Supervised Release. The Sentencing Guidelines call for a term of
supervised release of between one and three years. U.S.S.G.
S 5D1.2(a)(2).
9. Discretion of the Court. The foregoing stipulations are binding on
the parties, but do not bind the Court. The parties understand that the Sentencing
Guidelines are advisory and their application is a matter that falls solely within the
Court's discretion. The Court may make its own determination regarding the
applicable guideline factors and the applicable criminal history category. The Court
may also depart from the applicable Guidelines. If the Court determines that the
applicable guideline calculations or the defendant's criminal history category are
different from that stated above, such a determination shall not provide a basis for
the parties to withdraw from this agreement, and the defendant will be sentenced
pursuant to the Court's determinations.
10. Agreements as to Sentencing Recommendation. The parties are
free to recommend whatever sentence they deem appropriate. The parties reserve the
right to make a motion for departures from the applicable Guidelines range pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. s 3553(a), to oppose any such motion made by the opposing party, and to
argue for a sentence outside the applicable Guidelines range. If the Court does not
accept the sentencing recommendation of the parties, the defendant will have no right
to withdraw her guilty plea.
11. Special Assessment. The Sentencing Guidelines require payment of a
special assessment in the amount of $100 for each felony count of which the defendant
=== PAGE 8 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 8 of 11
is convicted. U.S.S.G. $ 5E1.3. The defendant agrees that the special assessment is
due and payable at the time of sentencing.
12.
Restitution Agreement. The defendant understands and agrees that
the Mandatory Victim Restitution Act, 18 U.S.C. $ 3663A, applies and that the Court
is required to order the defendant to make restitution to the victims of her crime. The
defendant understands and agrees the Court may order the defendant to make
restitution to any victim of the scheme regardless of whether the victim was named
in the Indictment. The defendant agrees that she owes restitution in the amount of
$2,434,360.
13. Disclosure of Assets. The defendant will fully and completely disclose
to the United States Attorney's Office the existence and location of any assets in
which the Defendant has any right, title, or interest, or over which the defendant
exercises control, directly or indirectly, including those assets held by a spouse,
nominee or other third party, or any business owned or controlled by the defendant.
The defendant agrees to assist the United States in identifying, locating, returning,
and transferring assets for use in payment of fines and/or forfeiture ordered by the
Court. The Defendant agrees to complete a financial statement within two weeks of
the entry of her guilty plea. The defendant further agrees to execute any releases that
may be necessary for the United States to obtain information concerning the
defendant's assets and expressly authorizes the United States to obtain a credit
report on the defendant to evaluate his ability to satisfy financial obligations imposed
=== PAGE 9 ===
CASE 0:23-Cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 9 of 11
by the Court. If requested by the United States, the defendant agrees to submit to
one or more asset interviews or depositions under oath.
14. Forfeiture. The defendant agrees to forfeit to the United States,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. $ 981(a)(1)(C) and 28 U.S.C. $ 2461(c), all property, real or
personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to wire fraud, as
charged in Count 1 of the Indictment, including but not limited to, the real property
including all structures located at 312 Chippenham Lane, Willernie, Minnesota.
The defendant admits that this property is subject to forfeiture because it
constitutes or is traceable to the wire fraud scheme alleged in Count 1 of the
Indictment.
The Defendant consents to the entry of a money judgment forfeiture in the
amount of $2,837,491, which represents the amount of proceeds she obtained from
the wire fraud scheme alleged in Count 1 of the Indictment. The defendant will
receive a credit against the money judgment forfeiture for the net value of all property
that is forfeited from her in this matter. The United States reserves the right to seek
forfeiture of substitute assets and any additional directly forfeitable property.
15. Waivers of Appeal and Collateral Attack. The defendant hereby
waives the right to appeal any non-jurisdictional issues. This appeal waiver includes,
but is not limited to, the defendant's waiver of the right to appeal guilt or innocence,
sentence and restitution, and the constitutionality of the statutes to which the
defendant is pleading guilty. The parties agree, however, that excluded from this
waiver is an appeal by defendant of the substantive reasonableness of a term of
=== PAGE 10 ===
CASE 0:23-cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 10 of 11
imprisonment above the high end of the Guidelines range of imprisonment. The
defendant also waives the right to petition under 28 U.S.C. $ 2255 except based upon
a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel.
The defendant has discussed these rights with her attorney. The defendant
understands the rights being waived, and the defendant waives these rights
knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily.
The United States agrees to waive its right to appeal any sentence except the
United States may appeal the substantive reasonableness of a term of imprisonment
below the low end of the Guidelines range of imprisonment.
16. FOIA Reguests. The defendant waives all rights to obtain, directly or
through others, information about the investigation and prosecution of this case
under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. ss 552,
552A.
10
=== PAGE 11 ===
CASE 0:23-cr-00082-NEB-DTS Doc. 43 Filed 01/10/24 Page 11 of 11
17. Complete Agreement. The defendant acknowledges that she has read
this plea agreement and has carefully reviewed each provision with his attorney. The
defendant further acknowledges that she understands and voluntarily accepts every
term and condition of this plea agreement. This plea agreement, along with any
agreement signed by the parties before entry of the plea, is the entire agreement and
understanding between the United States and the defendant.
hte0l-(
Dated: ANDREW M. LUGER
United States Attorney
BY: JOSEPH H. THOMPSON
HARRY M. JACOBS
CHELSEA A. WALCKER
MATTHEW S.EBERT
Assistant United States Attorneys
Jantany 10, 2o14
Dated: 
SHARON ROSS
Defendant
Dated: 10
EARL'GRAY
AMANDA MONTGOMERY
Counsel for Defendant
11