
=== PAGE 1 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 1 of 12
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA
Criminal No. 25-354 (JWB)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Plaintiff,
PLEA AGREEMENT AND
SENTENCING STIPULATIONS
Y.
ASAD AHMED ADOW,
Defendant.
The United States of America and Asad Ahmed Adow (hereafter, the
"defendant") agree to resolve this case on the terms and conditions that follow. This
plea agreement binds only the defendant and the United States Attorney's Office for
the District of Minnesota (hereafter, "the United States" or "the government"). This
agreement does not bind any other United States Attorney's Office or any other
federal or state agency.
1. Charges. The defendant agrees to plead guilty to Count One of the
Information, which charges the defendant with wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C.
$ 1343. The defendant fully understands the nature and elements of the erimes with
which he has been charged.
2. Factual Basis. The defendant is pleading guilty because he is in fact
guilty of Count One of the Information. In pleading guilty, the defendant admits the
following facts and that those facts establish his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and
constitute relevant conduct pursuant to the United States Sentencing Guidelines:
=== PAGE 2 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 2 of 12
From in or about March 2022 through April 2025, the defendant knowingly
carried out a scheme to defraud the Housing Stabilization Services ("HSs") program,
a Medicaid program designed to help people with disabilities and addictions find and
maintain housing. Rather that provide such help, the defendant obtained and
misappropriated millions of dollars in program funds that were intended as
reimbursements for services provided to those people.
Specifically, the defendant was the owner of Leo Human Services LLC. The
defendant registered Leo Human Services with the State of Minnesota in or about
March 2022. He ran the company out of his home in Blaine, Minnesota and a business
suite in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota.
The defendant enrolled Leo Human Services as a Housing Stability Services
Program provider in August 2022. The defendant then submitted false and
fraudulent claims to having provided Housing Stability Services to individuals in
need. In reality, the defendant and his employees provided few services to their
purported clients and they claimed to be entitled to HsS Program payments far
greater than the services they actually provided.
The defendant directed his employees at Leo Human Services to bill as much
as they could. At the same time, the defendant made clear to those employees that he
would not scrutinize the purported billable hours his employees submitted. In this
way, the defendant incentivized his employees, who were paid hourly wages, to
inflate their hours. The defendant then submitted these fraudulent claims for
Medicaid reimbursement.
=== PAGE 3 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 3 of 12
The defendant also trained his employees at Leo to create notes detailing the
purported services they provided. The HSS Program does not require providers to
submit such notes to receive reimbursements. Nevertheless, the defendant directed
his employees to create service notes so that the company would have them in case
the Minnesota Department of Human Services ever conducted an audit. The
represented their having provided Program services.
The defendant agrees that he sent, or caused to be sent, communications in
interstate commerce in furtherance of his fraud scheme, including through the use of
email accounts hosted by Google.
In all, the defendant, through Leo Human Services, claimed to have provided
HSS Program services to about 250 beneficiaries. Based on his fraudulent claims, the
defendant claimed entitlement to about $2.7 million in HSs Program payments. The
defendant diverted much of these payments to his co-conspirators. He also used the
proceeds to invest in real estate in Kenya, to fund his lifestyle, and to lease an
8. Waiver of Indictment. The defendant waives the right to be charged
by Indictment. The defendant agrees to sign a written waiver of this right at the
change of plea hearing.
4. Waiver of Pretrial Motions. The defendant understands and agrees
that he has certain rights to file pretrial motions in this case. As part of this plea
agreement, and based upon concessions of the United States within this plea
=== PAGE 4 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 4 of 12
agreement, the defendant knowingly, willingly, and voluntarily gives up the right to
file any pretrial motions in this case.
5. Waiver of Constitutional Trial Rights. The defendant understands
that he has the right to go to trial. At trial, the defendant would be presumed
innocent, have the right to trial by jury or, with the consent of the United States and
of the Court, to trial by the Court, the right to the assistance of counsel, the right to
confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, the right to subpoena witnesses to
testify for the defense, the right to testify and present evidence, and the right to be
protected from compelled self-incrimination. The defendant understands that he has
the right to an attorney at every stage of these proceedings and, if necessary, one will
be appointed to represent him. The defendant understands that he has the right to
persist in a plea of not guilty and, if he does so, he would have the right to a public
and speedy trial. By pleading guilty, the defendant knowingly, willingly, and
Defendant understands that a guilty plea is a complete and final admission of guilt
and, if the Court accepts the guilty plea, the Court will adjudge the defendant guilty
without a trial.
6. Additional Conseguences. The defendant understands that as a
result of his conviction, he could experience additional consequences, such as the loss
of the right to carry firearms, the right to vote, and the right to hold public office.
=== PAGE 5 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 5 of 12
7. Statutory Penalties. The defendant understands that Count One of
the Information (wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. $ 1343) is a felony offense that
carries the following statutory penalties:
a maximum of 20 years in prison;
a.
b. a supervised release term of not more than 3 years;
a maximum fine of $250,000, or twice the gross gain or loss caused
by the offense, whichever is greatest;
d. restitution as determined by the Court; and
e. a mandatory special assessment of $100.
8. Revocation of Supervised Release. The defendant understands that
if he were to violate any supervised release condition while on supervised release, the
Court could revoke his supervised release, and the defendant could be sentenced to
an additional term of imprisonment up to the statutory maximum set forth in 18
U.S.C. $ 3583(e)(3). See U.S.S.G. $S 7B1.4, 7B1.5. The defendant also understands
that as part of any revocation, the Court may include a requirement that he be placed
on an additional term of supervised release after imprisonment, as set forth in 18
U.S.C. $ 3588(h).
9. Guidelines Calculations. The parties acknowledge that the defendant
will be sentenced in accordance with 18 U.S.C. $ 3551, et seq. Nothing in this plea
agreement should be construed to limit the parties from presenting any and all
relevant evidence to the Court at sentencing. The parties also acknowledge that the
Court will consider the United States Sentencing Guidelines in determining the
appropriate sentence and stipulate to the following guideline calculations:
=== PAGE 6 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 6 of 12
Base Offense Level. The parties agree that the base offense level
a.
is 7. U.S.S.G. $ 2B1.1(a)(1).
b. Specific Offense Characteristics. The parties agree that a 16-level
enhancement applies pursuant to Guidelines $ 2B1.1(b)(1)(I)
because the intended loss exceeded $1.5 million. The parties agree
that a 2-level enhancement applies pursuant to Guidelines
$ 2B1.1(b)(7) because the defendant was convicted of a federal
health care offense involving a government health care program
and the loss to the government health care program was more
than $l million. The parties agree that no other specific offense
adjustments apply.
C. Chapter 3 Adjustments. The parties agree that a 2-level
enhancement applies pursuant to Guidelines $ 3B1.1(c) because
the defendant was an organizer, leader, manager, or supervisor
of the criminal activity. The parties agree that, other than
acceptance of responsibility, no other Chapter 3 adjustments
apply.
d. Acceptance of Responsibility. The government agrees to
recommend that the defendant receive a 2-level reduction for
acceptance of responsibility pursuant to U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1(a). As
the defendant has timely notified the government of his intention
to enter a plea of guilty, the government agrees to recommend
that the defendant receive an additional 1-level reduction
pursuant to U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1(b). Whether these reductions will be
imposed shall be determined by the Court in its discretion.
However, the defendant understands and agrees that the
following: (1) the defendant testifies truthfully during the change
of plea and sentencing hearings; (2) the defendant provides full,
complete and truthful information to the United States Probation
Office in the pre-sentence investigation; and (3) the defendant
responsibility before the time of sentencing, including frivolously
agreement limits the right of the government, pursuant to
U.S.S.G. $ 3E1.1 and/or $ 3C1.1 to seek denial of a reduction for
acceptance of responsibility or an enhancement for obstruction of
justice should the defendant engage in any conduct inconsistent
with acceptance of responsibility, including moving to withdraw
his guilty plea after it is entered.
=== PAGE 7 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 7 of 12
Criminal History Category. The parties believe that, at the time
e.
of sentencing, the defendant will fall into Criminal History
Category I. U.S.S.G. $ 4A1.1. This does not constitute a
stipulation, but a belief based on an assessment of the
information currently known, The defendant's actual criminal
history and related status will be determined by the Court based
on the information presented in the Presentence Report and by
the parties at the time of sentencing. The defendant understands
that if the presentence investigation reveals any prior adult or
juvenile sentence which should be included within his criminal
history under the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines, the defendant will
be sentenced based on his true criminal history category, and he
will not be permitted to withdraw from this Plea Agreement.
U.S.S.G. $ 4A1.1.
f.
Guidelines Range. If the adjusted offense level is 24, and the
criminal history category is I, the Sentencing Guidelines range is
51-63 months of imprisonment.
g. Fine Range. If the adjusted offense level is 24, the Sentencing
Guidelines fine range is$20,000to$200,000.U.S.S.G.
$ 5E1.2(c)(3).
Discretion of the Court. The foregoing stipulations are binding on the
10.
Guidelines are advisory and their application is a matter that falls solely within the
Court's discretion. The Court may make its own determination regarding the
applicable guideline factors and the applicable criminal history category. The Court
may also depart from the applicable Guidelines. If the Court determines that the
applicable guideline calculations or the defendant's criminal history category are
different from that stated above, such a determination shall not provide a basis for
the parties to withdraw from this agreement, and the defendant will be sentenced
pursuant to the Court's determinations.
=== PAGE 8 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 8 of 12
11. Agreements as to Sentencing Recommendation. The parties are
free to recommend whatever sentence they deem appropriate. The parties reserve the
right to make a motion for departures from the applicable Guidelines range pursuant
to 18 U.S.C. $ 3553(a), to oppose any such motion made by the opposing party, and to
argue for a sentence outside the applicable Guidelines range. If the Court does not
accept the sentencing recommendation of the parties, the defendant will have no right
to withdraw his guilty plea.
12. Special Assessment. The Sentencing Guidelines require payment of a
special assessment in the amount of $100.00 for each felony count of which the
defendant is convicted. U.S.S.G. $ 5E1.3. The defendant agrees that the special
assessment is due and payable at the time of sentencing.
13. Restitution Agreement. The defendant understands and agrees that
the Mandatory Victim Restitution Act, 18 U.S.C. $ 3663A, applies and that the Court
is required to order the defendant to make restitution to the victims of his crime. The
defendant understands and agrees the Court may order the defendant to make
restitution to any victim of the scheme regardless of whether the victim was named
in the Information. The defendant agrees that he owes restitution in the amount of
$2,710,832.
14. Disclosure of Assets. The defendant will fully and completely disclose
to the United States Attorney's Office the existence and location of any assets in
which the defendant has any right, title, or interest, or over which the defendant
exercises control, directly or indirectly, including those assets held by a spouse,
=== PAGE 9 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 9 of 12
nominee or other third party, or any business owned or controlled by the Defendant.
The defendant agrees to assist the United States in.identifying, locating, returning,
and transferring assets for use in payment of fines and/or forfeiture ordered by the
Court. The defendant agrees to complete a financial statement within two weeks of
the entry of his guilty plea. The defendant further agrees to execute any releases that
may be necessary for the United States to obtain information concerning the
defendant's assets and expressly authorizes the United States to obtain a credit
report on the defendant to evaluate his ability to satisfy financial obligations imposed
by the Court. If requested by the United States, the defendant agrees to submit to
one or more asset interviews or depositions under oath.
15. Forfeiture. The defendant agrees to forfeit to the United States,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. $ 981(a)(1)(C) and 28 U.S.C. $ 2461(c), all property, real or
personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the wire fraud
scheme charged in Count 1 of the Information, including but not limited to:
a. $48,600 in U.S. currency seized from various locations within
Anwar Adow's bedro0m at 3169 127th Avenue NW, Blaine, MN, including $41,600
from a safe; $6,000 under a mattress; and $1,000 on a desk;
b. $14,760 in currency seized from a safe located within the
defendant's bedroom at 3169 127th Avenue NW, Blaine; and
$25,000 in U.S. currency seized from a suitcase in the closet under
C.
the stairs at 3169 127th Avenue NW, Blaine.
=== PAGE 10 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 10 of 12
The defendant agrees that this property is subject to forfeiture because it
constitutes, or is derived from, proceeds traceable to the wire fraud scheme charged
in Count 1 of the Information.
16. The defendant agrees that the United States may, at its option, forfeit
the property through civil, criminal or administrative proceedings, waives any
deadline or statute of limitations for the initiation of any such proceedings, and
abandons any interest he may have in the property. The defendant waives all
statutory and constitutional defenses to the forfeiture and waives any right to contest
or challenge (including direct appeal, habeas corpus, or any other means) such
forfeiture, directly or through any company he owns or controls, on any grounds. To
the extent the defendant has requested remission or mediation of the forfeiture of the
third party in challenging the forfeiture of the property.
The defendant consents to the entry of a money judgment forfeiture in the
amount of $2,827,281, which represents the amount of proceeds Leo Human Services
obtained from the wire fraud scheme alleged in Count 1 of the Information. The
defendant will receive a credit against the money judgment forfeiture for the net
value of all property that is forfeited from him in this matter. The United States
reserves the right to seek forfeiture of substitute assets and any additional directly
forfeitable property.
17. Waivers of Appeal and Collateral Attack. The defendant hereby
waives the right to appeal any non-jurisdictional issues. This appeal waiver includes,
10
=== PAGE 11 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 11 of 12
but is not limited to, the defendant's waiver of the right to appeal guilt or innocence,
sentence and restitution, and the constitutionality of the statutes to which the
defendant is pleading guilty. The defendant also waives the right to petition under
28 U.S.C. $ 2255 except based upon a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel.
The defendant has discussed these rights with his attorney. The defendant
understands the rights being waived, and the defendant waives these rights
knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily.
18. FOIA Reguests. The defendant waives all rights to obtain, directly or
through others, information about the investigation and prosecution of this case
under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. $s 552,
552A.
19. Complete Agreement. The defendant acknowledges that he has read
this plea agreement and has carefully reviewed each provision with his attorney. The
defendant further acknowledges that he understands and voluntarily accepts every
term and condition of this plea agreement. This plea agreement, along with any
agreement signed by the parties before entry of the plea, is the entire agreement and
understanding between the government and the defendant.
11
=== PAGE 12 ===
CASE 0:25-cr-00354-JWB Doc. 14 Filed 11/17/25 Page 12 of 12
Dated: "/17/Q5
DANIEL N. ROSEN
United States Attorney
BY: DANEL W, BOBIER
JOSEPH H. THOMPSON
MATTHEW C. MURPHY
Assistant United States Attorneys
/17/25
Dated:
ASAD AHMED ADOW
Defendant
Dated:
JOETAMBURINO
WILLIAM BAILEY
Counsel for Mr, Adow
12